these five activities on Instagram are sure to
get you banned wondering if you've been Shadow
banned on Instagram well if you've engaged in any
of these five major red flag activities there's
a very good chance that you have in fact been
Shadow band maybe you have no idea what a shadow
band is but it does seem as though Instagram is
limiting the reach of your content this episode
of build your tribe is for you okay before I get
into these five activities that are destined to
if not get you Shadow ban they're going to
damage your personal reputation and in the
long run they're just they're detrimental to your
personal brand and they are definitely not helpful
if you're trying to grow your reach on Instagram
but first let me answer the question what is a
shadow band many people believe that they've been
Shadow banned because their content just stops
getting the same number of likes the same number
of comments it it just you stop getting the same
kind of traction that you once were and people
often believe that they've been shadowbanned 90%
of the time our Studies have shown and by the way
my son and I Brock the co-host of build your tribe
we host a very large Instagram growth community
so we're constantly not just teaching but we're
polling our members we're getting feedback from
them real data we actually have a PhD who works on
our staff all they do is look at data and numbers
and analyze this stuff so this isn't based on like
our you know personal opinion like this is based
on true data and research and what we found is 90%
of the time people have not been Shadow banned
what's going on is their content just isn't
performing as well because of all the reasons
we've talked about in previous episodes including
the fact that there's far more Supply than there
is demand which means in order for your content
to get the same kind of traction maybe it once
did it really needs to be freaking amazing like
most of us don't want to consume more social media
especially on Instagram we want to consume less so
we become very picky right there's probably very
few accounts you look at every single day there's
probably very few people or accounts whose stories
you make a point of going to watch every day and
because of that it's far more competitive so it's
not likely you've been Shadow baned but in case
you're just certain that your content is fantastic
and that's not the problem you think that you've
been shadowbanned I want to go over the five major
activities that are destined to limit your reach
if not get you Shadow bands so the first and most
common is buying followers and or likes um this is
a common practice if you've done this many many
years ago there's nothing really you can do can
do about it in fact there's really nothing you
can do about it if you've done it recently other
than don't do it again it's just the dumbest idea
especially if you were persuaded by someone who's
like these these are real followers they're in
your Niche and for x amount of dollars we're going
to get you real followers who've been looking for
this type of content or for x amount of dollars
we're going to get you x amount of likes per day
from real they would say from real accounts well
they might be real accounts how are we defining
real accounts how are we defining real followers
that's a great question these guys are scammers
these are often either stolen or bought created
accounts they are not I promise you they are not
real people who are really interested in your
content that's not happening so what happens
is when you buy these followers is there an
advantage to it yeah there is a little bit of
an advantage if your goal is to manipulate and
trick and deceive people can you tell like this is
this is my pet peeve and I'm saying this because
I mean I have friends in my not I shouldn't say
friends I have acquaintances in many different
Industries who I know no because they've told me
they've bought followers and people think that
they've got more credibility more expertise more
a validity to their message because they have so
many followers but it's a lie it's deceptive it's
in my opinion it's fraudulent especially if you
are working with other brands and perhaps they're
you know you're working with Brands and getting
deals because the number of followers you have or
the type of Engagement you get but if it's all fa
fake it's how is that any different from Faking
the paperwork to get a mortgage on your home
how is that any different from lying about your
credentials to get into college how is that any
different from lying in general it's lying and
that's your reputation let me know if you would
like for me to do an episode to teach you exactly
how to spot these fakes and phonies and I think
this is probably important not just because like
you want to know that some of you might be very
interested in paying other creators for their
user generating content offering sponsorship
or influencer deals or even micro influencer
deals and you're doing that based on how many
followers and likes a certain account might have
but when you know it's bogus do you really want to
do business with someone who's a liar who's into
deception I'm not about it I also want to say um
I I don't want to make you feel like horrible
if you're like I did it and I don't I'm not a
li that's not who I am I understand because I I
have some close friends who have bought followers
and they're like I so regret ever doing this if
you've done it and now you know better then you
just have to do better but I do think it's really
important if if a brand comes to you and they
want to do a partnership based on your followers
you you are probably going to do better in your
relationship if you just tell them that a certain
amount of your followers and or likes in the past
have been bought now I will say this any account
over about a 100,000 followers will automatically
have between 15 to 25 5% of their followers are
bot followers that you did not buy so if you
take a look at the bigger accounts the Bots will
often follow in large quantities any account that
already has a significant following because
they're trying to get the attention of your
existing followers and or there's a whole number
of different scams that they run so sometimes
people do have fake followers but if it's anything
beyond like 20% fake followers and by the way
there are sites where you can check people's how
authentic their followership is but again almost
any account over 100,000 including my own is going
to have a certain degree of fake followers and I
didn't buy them but they're still there and those
are from Bots but when you see an account that's
like 35 45 50% 80 90% fake followers that's
just criminal in my opinion like that means
you've bought a ton of followers so do not do that
Instagram's mechanism for identifying these things
is so acute it is so precise that it will and
you won't get a notification you'll just your
reach will stop so all you're not going to get
any more new followers you're going to have those
existing followers if you get new followers it's
going to be pretty accidental and you're going
to see that it's going to diminish your likes
so when you stop paying for likes when you stop
paying for followers you're like dead in the
water for a considerable amount of time second
biggest mistake that you can make on Instagram
that's certain to get you Shadow band is buying
engagement or engaging in engagement pods so what
is an engagement pod engagement pods are when a
group of people oftentimes people who are also
buying their followers form a group you'll get
a DM someone will invite you to this engagement
pod you pay a certain amount of money and then
anytime anyone in this particular group makes
a post and and sometimes they're limited to 100
or 50 or 25 or 200 or 500 you don't know because
the person organizes these things is usually not
very trustworthy so you pay a certain amount of
money and everybody who's in this pod every time
you make a post they're all notified and they
all leave comments on your latest Instagram
post it would seem like a great idea I remember
when people first came up with this idea and it
seemed like it was a great idea I remember I had
like a group of 10 friends I'm like hey we should
all Let each other know when we post so we can
like you know be right away to comment this is
like 10 years ago well now these things have
evolved and you know like I said when you know
better you do better engagement pods are no more
credible than buying likes and buying followers
you're paying for people to inauthentically
engage with your content they haven't engage
with it because they're excited about it they've
engaged with it because they've paid and they want
you to do the same for theirs and this really
drives me crazy it's easy to spot it's so easy
to spot because when someone's in an engagement
pod right away the second they post there's like
all these comments and they're super dumb they're
like beautiful girl looking great again fire wow
slay lady they're like so lame and they're usually
from other blue checks if you go click on those
other people those other blue checks 90% of the
time they're not even following this person yet
they comment on every single post that's a dead
giveaway and then that person is always commenting
on their post and here's the dumbest thing about
these engagement pods those people are never going
to be your customers so it's a waste of time it
hurts your credibility it makes you look like
a fraudster and while the average person can't
spot it anyone who's in business who understands
social media and knows that this happening they're
not going to say anything to you but we all know
you're doing it and it's kind of embarrassing
it's really it's lame I think it's deceptive I
think it's fraudulent all you're doing is paying
to hurt your reputation and paying to hurt your
engagement in the long run and yeah it might make
you look fancy and give you some clout with some
people who don't know better but in the long run
it's a dumb idea it's a bad idea third and most
likely to get you Shadow banned is regularly using
hashtags that you might not even realize have been
banned by Instagram now get this for a period of
time I don't I I haven't even checked recently to
see if my my name for a period of time was getting
people Shadow bound on Instagram and it is because
you know tons of people this is like when my in
infomercials were on TV right so we're talking
like back in the DayDay with Instagram and for
some reason some pornographic uh I don't know
what you call it like some pornographic content
creator started using my hashtag and so when you
when you typed in shellene Johnson it was it was
porn and then for a while there if you typed in
shelene Johnson your post you know your followers
Etc could see it but like nobody knew would see it
and it wouldn't show up on the explore page so the
band hashtags are always changing they're some of
the more obvious ones are like nudity or adulting
or booty or um I mean some of them are kind of
surprising and I could give you a complete list
here hashtags that have that are likely to get
you Shadow bound they change all the time because
it's automated meaning when one of these scammers
or Bots or companies decides to take over a
hashtag it's caught by the very intricate systems
at Instagram that looks for these things and they
just shut it down so it might only be banned for
a couple of days the reason why I tell you that is
because it's one of the reasons why you might want
to check first of all to see okay are people using
this hashtag and is getting traction today so for
example if you were to look up a certain hashtag
let's say you I'm just picking a hypothetical
one you picked up you wanted to use the hashtag
booty right and you look up booty and the last
the most recent post using booty was from 2016
well you know that's a hashtag you don't want
to use the good news is you really don't need
to use hashtags today so when in doubt leave
them out the algorithm is so good at picking up
every single word that's said in your reels every
single word that's typed in your caption every
single word that shows up in the transcript of
your video plus all the text like everything
it scans the photo it scans everything and all
of that information is read by the Instagram
algorithm so you really don't need to use a
hashtag when in doubt leave it out unless you're
positive that that hashtag has not been banned
the fourth activity that is likely to get you
reduced reach if not Shadow band is using any type
of explicit content or content that some people
might report to be explicit uh an example of this
is I have a friend who is a bikini competitor
meaning they do Fitness competitions and when
they were preparing for their competition you know
they started posting photos of like their posing
you know in their bikinis and you know there's
this shot that uh bikini competitors do where
they like Flex their glutes and kind of stick out
their butt and they're usually wearing a thong and
her account for some reason quite a few of her
followers reported it as inappropriate content
and she noticed for a a short period of time when
she was posting her content related to her fitness
competition that her reach just went to like
nothing and so you know as I'm going through
her content there you're not going to receive a
notification for this so I certainly cannot verify
this with 100% certainty but it's very likely just
based on the comments under some of her posts like
people saying like Ju Just making kind of remarks
like is this necessary and you know that kind of
person that person is like is this necessary you
know that that's the kind of person who probably
also reported the content so anything that you're
posting that could be or might be construed by
others to be inappropriate content or even if it's
just like a hater or someone who just doesn't like
you is in a bad mood because you're looking cute
today enough people report you based on the size
of your account it is very likely that Instagram
will put a they will limit your reach because the
last thing Instagram wants anyone to do is to get
off their app right so they want to make sure that
they're they're putting content in front of all of
their viewers that their viewers want to see and
so they're not going to risk putting something in
front of someone that is potentially offensive and
might make them leave the app or log off right
so another example that you might be unaware
could limit your reach is using music because
most popular music has an e by it which stands for
explicit and a lot of people have their account
set to avoid any explicit content anyone under 18
might not be served any content that has music
in it that might have explicit lyrics and even
though these lyrics are provided to us and music
is provided to us by the Instagram platform it
is important whenever possible to look for the
particular song that you like and see if you
can't find a clean version of it it's difficult
sometimes I'm just lazy and I'm like I just like
this song and you know what if it gets me less
reach that's okay if someone doesn't like this
because it's got you know adult language in it oh
well but if I'm if I were really worried if I was
really like I've got to get my if you are trying
to get your account to reach more people these are
the little things that are you know you they're
just little details that if you pay attention to
them you are going to get more reach and if you're
not careful you can make some of these mistakes by
accident and end up shadowbanned the fifth thing
that could get you shadowbanned on Instagram is
using any automation tool that is not approved by
Instagram now one that I love using we love using
as a company with Team Johnson with insta clubhub
Brock Johnson uses it I mean almost every friend I
have in the industry uses many chat and I will put
a link to many chat Below in our show notes this
is not sponsored by many chat but many chat is
a way it is a currently API approved third-party
application approved by Instagram they're partners
with Instagram so that means that I can say in my
caption comment the word Fitness or comment the
word walk and I will send you my YouTube playlist
to teach you everything you need to know about
walking right and so when I do that my engagement
like through the roof and it's real engagement
it's from my real followers what is automated is
the response so when that person comments a word
under my post I get a lot more comments that's
for sure but I don't have to individually reply to
each one of those comments but each one of those
people is automatically sent a direct message that
I've composed but I haven't sent the sending of
it is automated and the sending of it goes to
their direct message and it often includes an
external link now at the moment and for many
years at least the last I would say gosh I I
don't quote me but at least the last four years
we've been using many chat never had any problems
never until this year there was one time there was
like about a week period that it didn't happen to
me but I heard from other creators who were like
I just got a notification from Instagram that I
was engaging in spam related activities and what
all of those people had in common is they were
all using many chat now we reached out to many
chat spoke directly with the CEO and at that time
Instagram was going through that process manually
they said people who are using the many chat their
accounts were temporarily not suspended but
they they were limited from engaging commenting
liking on anyone's and responding to anyone's
posts and it was quickly resolved and when I
say quickly I mean within a matter of days I
personally have never had any problems and I
use many chat all the time but there's lots of
other third-party applications automation tools
that people will tell you it's Instagram approved
but y'all like do your research because I'm tell I
just we know because we hear from our students
we have thousands and th tens of thousands
of students so we hear regularly they'll say
what about this one I was told that this was
you know Instagram approved the API was approved
by Instagram I I looked at all the verifications
online you have to talk to other people who are
using it you know that's why it's so important
to be a member of a community like insta Club
H where we're we're going to do that research
for you and I can tell you with complete Authority
at this time many chat is one of those thirdparty
tools that makes a huge difference I can't even
tell you how much it has grown our email list
and my engagement all of our engagements across
all of our accounts and it saved us so much time
and money and this is not an ad for many I'm just
saying that's one that is actually is approved and
it works but these things can change all the time
so that's why it's really important to stay up to
date it's really important that you make sure that
you're subscribed to build your tribe because we
are going to keep you updated on this stuff
please let me know if you think you have been
Shadow banned and if you've got some idea of why
it might have happened you can drop that comment
below listen it's my goal to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done we're done
[Music]